bpo-14243: Optionally delete NamedTemporaryFile on content manager exit but not on file close (#22431)
python/cpython: Doc/library/tempfile.rst

      Added *errors* parameter.

.. function:: NamedTemporaryFile(mode='w+b', buffering=-1, encoding=None, newline=None, suffix=None, prefix=None, dir=None, delete=True, *, errors=None, delete_on_close=True)

   This function operates exactly as :func:`TemporaryFile` does, except the
   following differences:

   * The file is guaranteed to have a visible name in the file system (on Unix, the directory entry is not unlinked).

>    * The *delete_on_close* parameter is added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * There is more granularity in the deletion behaviour of the file
     (see ``delete_on_close`` below)
```

      Added *errors* parameter.

.. function:: NamedTemporaryFile(mode='w+b', buffering=-1, encoding=None, newline=None, suffix=None, prefix=None, dir=None, delete=True, *, errors=None, delete_on_close=True)

   This function operates exactly as :func:`TemporaryFile` does, except the
   following differences:

   * The file is guaranteed to have a visible name in the file system (on Unix, the directory entry is not unlinked).

   * There is more granularity in the deletion behaviour of the file
     (see ``delete_on_close`` below)

   The returned object is always a file-like object whose :attr:`!file`
   attribute is the underlying true file object. This file-like object can be
   used in a :keyword:`with` statement, just like a normal file.

   The name of the temporary file can be retrieved from the :attr:`name`
   attribute of the returned file-like object. Whether the name can be used to
   open the file a second time, while the named temporary file is still open,

>    varies across platforms (it can be so used on Unix; it cannot on Windows).

Reviewer 2: In Windows, the file can be opened again if `delete_on_close` is false or if the open shares delete access (e.g. by calling `CreateFileW()` directly with `FILE_SHARE_DELETE`, or calling `os.open()` with `O_TEMPORARY`). If `delete_on_close` is false, and the file is opened again *without* sharing delete access (e.g. via builtin `open()`), then the second open *must* be closed before exiting the context manager, else the `unlink()` call on context manager exit will fail with a `PermissionError` due to an OS sharing-violation error (32).

Author: @eryksun I have implemented your comments. Can you please look at this once again?

   If *delete* is true (the default) and *delete_on_close* is true (the
   default), the file is deleted as soon as it is closed. If *delete* is true

>    and *delete_on_close* is false, the file is deleted on context manager exit

Reviewer 2: In Windows, if `delete_on_close` is false, and the file is created in a directory for which the user lacks delete access (either directly for files as an inherited rule that grants `DELETE` access, or at the directory level via `FILE_DELETE_CHILD` access), then the `unlink()` call on exit of the context manager will fail with a `PermissionError` due to an OS access-denied error (5). This cannot happen when `delete_on_close` is true because `DELETE` access is implicitly requested when `CreateFileW()` is called with `FILE_FLAG_DELETE_ON_CLOSE`, so the open immediately fails if the caller lacks delete access.

Author: @eryksun I have implemented your comments. Thanks!
I have also slightly rearranged information. I think the flow is more logical now

      Added *errors* parameter.

.. function:: NamedTemporaryFile(mode='w+b', buffering=-1, encoding=None, newline=None, suffix=None, prefix=None, dir=None, delete=True, *, errors=None, delete_on_close=True)

   This function operates exactly as :func:`TemporaryFile` does, except the
   following differences:

   * The file is guaranteed to have a visible name in the file system (on Unix,
     the directory entry is not unlinked).

   * There is more granularity in the deletion behaviour of the file (see
     ``delete_on_close`` below)

   The returned object is always a file-like object whose :attr:`!file`
   attribute is the underlying true file object. This file-like object can be

>    used in a :keyword:`with` statement, just like a normal file.The name of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   used in a :keyword:`with` statement, just like a normal file.  The name of the
```

   and *delete_on_close* is false, the file is deleted on context manager exit
   only. If *delete* is false, the value of *delete_on_close* is ignored.

   While the named temporary file is open, the file can always be opened again
   on POSIX. On Windows, it can be opened again if *delete* is false, or if
   *delete_on_close* is false, or if the additional open shares delete access
   (e.g. by calling :func:`os.open` with the flag ``O_TEMPORARY``).  On
   Windows, if *delete* is true and *delete_on_close* is false, additional
   opens that do not share delete access (e.g. via builtin :func:`open`) must
   be closed before exiting the context manager, else the :func:`os.unlink`
   call on context manager exit will fail with a :exc:`PermissionError`.

   To use the name of the temporary file to open the closed file second time,
   either make sure not to delete the file upon closure (set the *delete*
   parameter to be false) or, in case the temporary file is created in a
   :keyword:`with` statement, set the *delete_on_close* parameter to be false.
   The latter approach is recommended as it provides assistance in automatic

>    cleaning of the temporary file upon the context manager exit.

Reviewer 2: The previous paragraphs explain the basic operation of the `delete` and `delete_on_close` parameters and that the file can be opened again if `delete` or `delete_on_close` is false. I was trying to avoid restating this because it's getting kind of long-winded.

Author: I think one can work out this information from the previous pragagraphs, but from the not so advanced user  point of view (like myself) I would want to have this paragraph as well, as it describes arguably the most frequent use of the named temporary file: write some data, close it and then use its name to open it further.

   This function operates exactly as :func:`TemporaryFile` does, except the
   following differences:

   * The file is guaranteed to have a visible name in the file system (on Unix,
     the directory entry is not unlinked).

   * There is more granularity in the deletion behaviour of the file (see
     ``delete_on_close`` below)

   The returned object is always a file-like object whose :attr:`!file`
   attribute is the underlying true file object. This file-like object can be
   used in a :keyword:`with` statement, just like a normal file.The name of the
   temporary file can be retrieved from the :attr:`name` attribute of the
   returned file-like object. 

   If *delete* is true (the default) and *delete_on_close* is true (the
   default), the file is deleted as soon as it is closed. If *delete* is true
   and *delete_on_close* is false, the file is deleted on context manager exit
   only. If *delete* is false, the value of *delete_on_close* is ignored.

   Whether the name of the temporary file can be used to open the file a second
   time, while the named temporary file is still open, varies across platforms:

>    * It can be so used on Unix.

Reviewer 3: I don’t understand `so used`

>    * In Windows, the file can be opened again if *delete_on_close* is false or

Reviewer 3: On Windows

(same tiny issue in other places in the file, please change all)

Author: Fixed

     if the open shares delete access (e.g. by calling :func:`os.open` with the
     flag ``O_TEMPORARY``).  If *delete_on_close* is false, and the file is
     opened again without sharing delete access (e.g. via builtin :func:`open`),
     then the second open must be closed before exiting the context manager,
     else the :func:`os.unlink` call on context manager exit will fail with a
     ``PermissionError``.

   To use the name of the temporary file to open the closed file second time,
   either make sure not to delete the file upon closure (set the *delete*
   parameter to be false) or, in case the temporary file is created in a

>    :keyword:`with` statement, set the *delete_on_close* to be false. The latter

Reviewer 3: Say either:

> set *delete_on_close* to false

or:

> set the *delete_on_close* parameter to false

Author: Thanks, this is implemented

>    Whether the name of the temporary file can be used to open the file a second
>    time, while the named temporary file is still open, varies across platforms:
> 
>    * It can be so used on Unix.
> 
>    * In Windows, the file can be opened again if *delete_on_close* is false or
>      if the open shares delete access (e.g. by calling :func:`os.open` with the
>      flag ``O_TEMPORARY``).  If *delete_on_close* is false, and the file is
>      opened again without sharing delete access (e.g. via builtin :func:`open`),
>      then the second open must be closed before exiting the context manager,
>      else the :func:`os.unlink` call on context manager exit will fail with a
>      ``PermissionError``.
> 
>    To use the name of the temporary file to open the closed file second time,
>    either make sure not to delete the file upon closure (set the *delete*
>    parameter to be false) or, in case the temporary file is created in a
>    :keyword:`with` statement, set the *delete_on_close* to be false. The latter
>    approach is recommended as it provides assistance in automatic cleaning of
>    the temporary file upon the context manager exit.

Reviewer 2: Since only POSIX and Windows are discussed, and it's mostly about Windows, the bullet points and subsequent paragraph could be folded into a single paragraph. For example:

```suggestion
   While the named temporary file is open, the file can always be opened again
   on POSIX. On Windows, it can be opened again if *delete* is false, or if
   *delete_on_close* is false, or if the additional open shares delete access
   (e.g. by calling :func:`os.open` with the flag ``O_TEMPORARY``).  On
   Windows, if *delete* is true and *delete_on_close* is false, additional
   opens that do not share delete access (e.g. via builtin :func:`open`) must
   be closed before exiting the context manager, else the :func:`os.unlink`
   call on context manager exit will fail with a ``PermissionError``.
```

Author: @eryksun , I have implemented you suggestion, but then restored the (probably accidently deleted) paragraph about usage of the name of the file to open it second time. This is the main reason this PR was created, I think I have to leave it in.

```
   To use the name of the temporary file to open the closed file second time,
   either make sure not to delete the file upon closure (set the *delete*
   parameter to be false) or, in case the temporary file is created in a
   :keyword:`with` statement, set the *delete_on_close* to be false. The latter
   approach is recommended as it provides assistance in automatic cleaning of
   the temporary file upon the context manager exit.
```

   In Windows, if *delete_on_close* is false, and the file is created in a
   directory for which the user lacks delete access, then the :func:`os.unlink`

>    call on exit of the context manager will fail with a ``PermissionError``.

Reviewer 3: Could `PermissionError` be a link?  (using `:exc:` role if that exists)

Author: Thank you! Implemented!

   This function operates exactly as :func:`TemporaryFile` does, except the
   following differences:

   * The file is guaranteed to have a visible name in the file system (on Unix, the directory entry is not unlinked).

   * There is more granularity in the deletion behaviour of the file
     (see ``delete_on_close`` below)

   The returned object is always a file-like object whose :attr:`!file`
   attribute is the underlying true file object. This file-like object can be
   used in a :keyword:`with` statement, just like a normal file.The name of the
   temporary file can be retrieved from the :attr:`name` attribute of the
   returned file-like object. 

   If *delete* is true (the default) and *delete_on_close* is true (the
   default), the file is deleted as soon as it is closed. If *delete* is true
   and *delete_on_close* is false, the file is deleted on context manager exit
   only. If *delete* is false, the value of *delete_on_close* is ignored.

   Whether the name of the temporary file can be used to open the file a second
   time, while the named temporary file is still open, varies across platforms:

   * It can be so used on Unix.

>    * In Windows, the file can be opened again if *delete_on_close* is false or if
>      the open shares delete access (e.g. by calling ``CreateFileW()`` directly with
>      ``FILE_SHARE_DELETE``, or calling :func:`os.open` with ``O_TEMPORARY``). If
>      *delete_on_close* is false, and the file is opened again without sharing
>      delete access (e.g. via builtin :func:`open`), then the second open must be
>      closed before exiting the context manager, else the :func:`os.unlink` call on
>      context manager exit will fail with a ``PermissionError`` due to an OS
>      sharing-violation error (32).

Reviewer 2: I think just the Python `os.open` example suffices, and the Windows error code is too much information:
 
```suggestion
   * In Windows, the file can be opened again if *delete_on_close* is false or
     if the open shares delete access (e.g. by calling :func:`os.open` with the
     flag ``O_TEMPORARY``).  If *delete_on_close* is false, and the file is
     opened again without sharing delete access (e.g. via builtin :func:`open`),
     then the second open must be closed before exiting the context manager,
     else the :func:`os.unlink` call on context manager exit will fail with a
     ``PermissionError``.
```

Author: OK, thanks.

   To use the name of the temporary file to open the closed file second time,
   either make sure not to delete the file upon closure (set the *delete*
   parameter to be false) or, in case the temporary file is created in a
   :keyword:`with` statement, set the *delete_on_close* to be false. The latter
   approach is recommended as it provides assistance in automatic cleaning of
   the temporary file upon the context manager exit.

>    In Windows, if *delete_on_close* is false, and the file is created in a
>    directory for which the user lacks delete access (either directly for files
>    as an inherited rule that grants ``DELETE`` access, or at the directory level
>    via ``FILE_DELETE_CHILD`` access), then the :func:`os.unlink` call on exit of
>    the context manager will fail with a ``PermissionError`` due to an OS
>    access-denied error (5). This cannot happen when *delete_on_close* is true
>    because ``DELETE`` access is implicitly requested when ``CreateFileW()`` is
>    called with ``FILE_FLAG_DELETE_ON_CLOSE``, so the open immediately fails if
>    the caller lacks delete access.

Reviewer 2: Again, simplify since there's no need to overwhelm the reader with too much information:

```suggestion
   In Windows, if *delete_on_close* is false, and the file is created in a
   directory for which the user lacks delete access, then the :func:`os.unlink`
   call on exit of the context manager will fail with a ``PermissionError``.
   This cannot happen when *delete_on_close* is true because delete access is
   requested by the open, which fails immediately if the requested access is
   not granted.
```
